[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
Pam created this podcast to share our
professional experience and insights and
help you to be a great b2b marketer you
enjoy the podcast please share it with
your colleagues and leave a review on
iTunes now let's get started a big hello
from Paula noreagaaa and I hope
everybody's doing very well for today
what I really want to talk about is how
to think strategically you know a
strategic is such a big word whenever I
think the term strategic thinking I
picture a politician or policymaker in
the think tank all right trying to grab
big initiatives to tackle issues like
climate change employment and boosting
the economy etc for the sake of today's
podcast I want to narrow the definition
strategic thinking a little bit just a
little bit in the context of a b2b
marketing so let's keep it concrete how
can you carry productive and interactive
conversations with your CEO VP of
Marketing and other senior staff and I
want to discuss the ability to think
strategically in a very concrete way so
that you can implement right away so
here are three suggestions number one
think from the perspective of why and
what not how so let me explain that and
this is derived from my personal
experience my background was finance
accounting and operations when I was
told to do certain things
my first intuition has always been to
think about implementation how can I
make this happen for my management
customers and internal stakeholders when
I try to carry conversations with senior
managers most of the time they are more
interesting knowing why I go with the
specific recommendation not how right
away all right and what analysis
infectors did I use to reach that
conclusion
and what are some of the pros and cons
most importantly what are the benefits
to the company and the customers once
they understand why and what then I
would go on explain how that is one
thing I learned by having you know
multiple conversation with them that's
how they think and you help them to
understand why and what first but
sometimes some senior staff will start
asking how question and dive into the
detail very quickly so it's very
important if you want to take control
the conversation especially in the big
meeting it's important to elevate them
and help them to think the why and the
web first before you answer how
questions does that make sense so that's
a first suggestions I share with
everybody number two
communicating the ways that senior
managers can understand I've seen many
marketers sharing social media metrics
with senior staff frankly they don't
really care about likes views or shares
what I really care about is how social
media helps the company increase revenue
reduce cost mitigate risks or improve
customer service so can you tie your
social media conversations with any of
that in the context of say improving
customer service you need to understand
how senior managers measure themselves
and share the information in a way they
understand what care about frankly this
is a challenge for many marketers
including me when I was in the corporate
world so one thing I did was make sure
that I aligned my marketing plan and
strategy with light of sales and the
customer service much of a content I
created frankly are actually for
marketing I'll reach but I make sure I
selected some of the content which can
be used by sales I also make sure that
salespeople know what content I created
and how they could use them I also
suggested some content to our customer
service team as a part of their training
especially the product specific
information so rather than just
reporting only on the viewership of the
content on the website
I was so cool how content especially
lowest of a content was used for sales
and customers when I show management the
content used by sales and customer
service they show a little excitement
and they wanted to learn a little bit
more you know I say oh so that content
being used by sales team well how do
they use it what is the title you know
in what situation can you tell me a
little bit more then it became actually
a very good interactive conversation
number-three helped senior managers
connect the dots so I don't know about
you but for me even now as independent
consultants working with CEOs the VP of
Marketing is I have come to realize that
mainly senior managers are in their
forties fifties and in some cases in
their early 60s they didn't grow up with
digital like Millennials many still use
mobile phones and tablets like a no bias
consumer they don't know the ins and out
of digital marketing what amount of
digital integration and usage of various
marketing technologies and tools you
need to use to tie everything together
it's a lot of work right they don't know
how much back in work it takes to make
sure website scales dynamically or the
photos show up properly on different
devices and not you know not improperly
cropped they don't know how much work
you need to use to create seamless
nurturing campaigns to increase
conversion rate you have to do a lot of
AV testings and try different
copywriting try different images etc
they don't know what they don't know
therefore you need to use analogy that
they can understand so a typical example
I use with senior manager especially
when I asked me a question well you know
what how does it take so long for you to
find a high-quality and QL marketing
qualified lead and I always said okay
alright to answer that question
I want to ask everybody a couple
questions first of all how long does it
take for sales to close a deal oh well
12 to 18 months how many touch points
the sales need to engage with prospect
during that time well about thirty of
them okay the sales need to strategize
in and prepare for each touch
oh yeah yes yes was it a lot of work to
do that oh yeah yes yes okay everyone
now try to imagine doing exactly the
same thing all right but on the up front
of finding a high-quality and QL
digitally in a scalable and
semi-automatic way so everything that
sales need to do all the question I just
asked that also apply to all the
marketing need to do to find a
high-quality and QL once I said that
they kind of like okay we get it Pam we
get it it's a lot of work yes it is so
using the ology they understand and help
them connect the dots so I hope this
helps I hope that these suggestions give
you some ideas to learn how to think
strategically in the context of your job
in the context of b2b marketing in the
context of moving up for your career
development so I hope that I provide
concrete example and suggestions that
you can use after this episode again if
you like the content please subscribe to
my podcast on iTunes if you prefer
youtube you know what I published one
video a week starting in October you can
subscribe to my youtube channel if you
prefer but please subscribe for the next
episode I want to share with you some
ideas how you can cultivate the
strategic thinking okay so stay tuned
have a great day
[Music]
if you enjoyed this podcast please share
it with your colleagues and leave a
review on iTunes
[Music]